Today read through Chapters 1 and 2 of "Clojure from the ground Up".

The main learning of these couple of chapters are to give an introduction intothe various different types of syntax tha tis available within Clojure. And boy, there are many. 

## Chapter 1 looks at the basics like:

- Values (Nouns)
  - Nil - most basic value
  - True / false - bolleans
  - 0, 1, -47, 1/3 - numbers
  - "Hello World" - String

- Verbs
  - "inc" (increment) - points to a values
  - Reference to other values

- Sentences
  - Add "'" (eg. '"foo") and get back what you wrote (the expression or sentence)
  - Returns the text unchanged

- List
  - Lists can contain anything: Numbers, Strings, other lists
  - List order is innermost to outermost
  - Think of these as trees

## Chapter 2

- Integers
  - Long/MAX_VALUE
  - BigInt (for really big numbers)
  - Short/MAX_VALUE
  - byte/MAX_VALUE

- Fractional Numbers
  -  Floats us 32 buts and Doubles use 64 - Doubles are default
  -  Ratio (eg. 1/3) exact value

- Mathematical Operatoins
  - (+ 1  2) = 3 sames goes for (+ 1  2.0) 
  - = "are all things that follow the same? vs ==  "are the things the same but more loosely"
  - (<= 1 2 3) = true - numbers are in order
  - inc (increment) and dec (decrease?) will add or subtract 1 respectively

- Strings
  -  Can make almost anything into a string (symbols, booleans, numbers)
  -  (str "cat") = (str 'cat)
  -  Can concatenate (str "meow " 3 " times") = meow 3 times
  -  re-find look for occurrences in a string
    -  (re-find #"cat" "mystic cat mouse") = "cat
    - (re-find #"cat" "only dogs here") = nil
  - re-matches - you can extract particular parts of a string which match an expression

- Booleans and Logic
  - alse and nil are negative, all else true
  - (and ) = (and 1 2 3)
  - (or ) = (or false 2 3)
  - (not ) = (not nil)

- Symbols
  - bare strings of characters like foo or +
  - Symbols is to refer to things, to point to other values

- Keywords
  - :cat = keyword
  - these are specifically intended for use as labels or identifiers
  - Keywords are most useful when paired with other values in a collection, like a map

- Lists
  - Collection is a group of values Containers provide structure Elements or Members are inside of collections list is a type of collection
  - Use single quote to prevent lists being evaluated ’(1 2 3)
  - Conjoin lists ``` (conj ’(1 2 3) 4)``` => (4 1 2 3)
  - ```(first (list 1 2 3))``` = 1
  - ```(second (list 1 2 3))``` = 2
  - ```(nth (list 1 2 3) 2)``` = 2
    - nth gets the element of an ordered collection at a particular index, Zero indexed
  - Well suited for small collection or things that are read in linear order.

- Vectors
  -  [1 2 3] Don’t need to be quoted as they are evaluated differently from lists.
  - (vector 1 2 3) returns [1 2 3]
  -  (vec (list 1 2 3)) returns [1 2 3]
  - (conj [1 2 3] 4) returns [1 2 3 4]
  - first, second and nth work but nth is fast for vectors
  - (rest …) and (next …) returns everything but the first
  - est returns () when done and next returns nil(count [1 2 3])
  - = ’(1 2 3) [1 2 3]) if they contain the same elements in the same order they are considered equal.

- Sets
  - Unordered collection of value - good for if you plan to ask questions like “does the collection have the number 3 in it?”
  - #{:a :b :c} => will not always be in the same order.
  - ```(sort #{:a :b :c})``` will return them in order
  - ```(conj #{:a :b :c} :d)```
  - Conjoining will only contain each element once and will discard repeats.
  - ```(disj #{“cow” “sheep”} #{“sheep”})``` will return cow as this is the disjoin of the sets.
  - ```(contains? #{1 2 3} 3)``` returns true
  - Make any collection a set with the keyword (set (1 2 3))

- Maps
  - Surrounded by curly braces {…} and filled with alternating keys and values.
  - ```(get {“cat” “meow” “dog” “woof”} “cat”)``` will return “meow”
  - ```(get {:a 1 :b 2} :c)``` - will return false
  - ```(get {:glinda :good} :wicked :not-here)``` can provide a default value as the 4th argument.
  - ```(assoc {:bolts 1088} :camshafts 3)``` add to a map with assoc
  - ```(assoc {:camshafts 3} :camshafts 2)``` if they key already exists the value will be overwritten.
  - ```(merge {:a 1 :b 2} {:b 3 :c 4})``` - this combines maps and will prefer values from the later maps.
  - ```(dissoc {:potatoes 5 :mushrooms 2} :mushrooms)``` will remove a key/value pair.


Wow, that was a lot to take in, luckily I did see there were a few good cheatsheets around the web so do not necessarily need to remember every single one by heart just yet.
