Today was Chapter 6 day:

[Chapter 6](https://aphyr.com/posts/306-clojure-from-the-ground-up-state)

Go from immutable references to complex concurrent transactions.

- Immutability
let bindings and function arguments are immutable: they never change
The expression (inc x) did not alter x: x remained 1. The same applies to strings, lists, vectors, maps, sets, and most everything else in Clojure
Immutability also extends to let bindings, function arguments, and other symbols. Functions remember the values of those symbols at the time the function was constructed.

- Delays
         - Delays defer evaluation
         -  (def later  ) allows you to set tu the function only once later is called.
- This allows you do run expressions outside their sequential order
- Delay creates a special function
- (def later (delay (prn "Adding") (+ 1 2)))
- shortcut for deref = @

- Futures
- futures parallelize evaluation
- don’t need the result of evaluating these expressions yet, but I’d like it later
- we can deref a future as many times as we want, and the expressions are only evaluated once
- (def x (future (prn "hi") (+ 1 2)))

- Promises
- Pending value
- Like delays and futures, there’s no going back on our promises. Once delivered, a promise always refers to the same value.

- Vars
- Vars can be read, set, and dynamically bound–but they aren’t easy to evolve
- Using mutable vars allows us to write programs which we can redefine as we go along
- ^:dynamic tells Clojure that this var can be overridden in one particular scope

- Atoms
- The initial value of this atom is #{}. Unlike vars, atoms are not transparent. When evaluated, they don’t return their underlying values–but notice that when printed, the current value is hiding inside. To get the current value out of an atom, we have to use deref or @

- Refs
         - Atoms are a great way to represent state, but they are only linearizable individually
         - For multi-identity updates, we need a stronger safety property than single-atom linearizability. We want serializability: a global order. For this, Clojure has an identity type called a Ref.

```Clojure
user=> (def x (ref 0))
user=> (def y (ref 0))
user=> (dosync
         (ref-set x 1)
         (ref-set y 2))
2
user=> [@x @y]
[1 2]
```
