Over the past couple of days I have been focusing on reading the chapters 1 to 3 of Clojure from the Ground up. 

Today I thought I would get started on Clojure for the Brave and True. As I have already read the introduction and decided to skip the EMACS chapter as will be using IntelliJ with Cursive I went straight into Chapter 3. 

Ohh today I also managed to complete the first 20 4Clojure problems. I find it interesting how some stuff just clicks, and then you click on the next problem and it is like "WHAT?". To add insult, you then look up in the top left hand corner and 4Clojure is mocking you with "Elementary" or "Easy". Damn you 4Clojure and your insults, I will overcome and succeed.

- If
  -  Works in the same way as Excel - If this then this or that.
  -  If only one expression then returns true
  -  `(if true “By Zeus’s hammer!” “By Aquaman’s trident!”)`

- Do
  -  Allows you to wrap up multiple forms
  -  Bit like if true then do this and then this, same goes for false -  basically allows you to return to things
  -  `(if true (do (println “Success!”) “By Zeus’s hammer!”) (do (println “Failure!”) “By Aquaman’s trident !”))`

- When
  -  This is like a if and do but without an else.
  -  `(when true (println “Success!”) “abra cadabra”)`

- Or
  -  `(or (= 0 1) (= “yes” “no”))` = false
  -  this is because they both need to be the same - think Excel

- And.or
  -  (and :free_wifi :hot_coffee)
  -  Again think Excel with this

- def - Name Values
  - you are basically defining your name
  - (defn failed-protagonist-names [“Larry Potter” “Doreen the Explorer” “The Incredible Bulk”])
  - failed-protagonist-names calls us the names
  - (defn error-message [severity] (str “OH G OD! IT’S A DISASTER! WE’RE ” (if (= severity :mild) “MILDLY INCONVENIENCE D!” “DOOOOOOOMED!”)))
  - (error-message :mild) ; => “OH GOD! IT’S A DISASTER!

- Numbers
  - This can be 93, 1.2, 1/5

- Strings
  - Text which includes ""

- Maps
  - `(get {:a 0 :b {:c “ho hum”}} :b)` = {:c "ho hum"}

- Keywords
  -  `(:a {:a 1 :b 2 :c 3})` = 1

- Vectors
  - `(get [3 2 1] 0)` = 3
  - `(conj [1 2 3] 4)`  = [1 2 3 4]

- Lists
  -  Similar to vectors but cannot retrive list elements using `get`
  - ‘(1 2 3 4)
  - `(nth ’(:a :b :c) 0)` = :a
  -  **Using nth to retrieve an element from a list is slower than using get to retrieve an element from a vector - Clojure has to traverse all n elements of a list to get to the nth, whereas it only takes a few hops at most to access a vector element by its index**
  -  **When to use a list vs vector? If you need to add items to the beginning of a sequence or writing a macro, use a list. Otherwise, use a vector**.

- Sets
  - collection of units values
  - `(conj #{:a :b} :b)` = #{:b :a}

- Contains
  - check if a membership contains
  - `(contains? #{:a :b} :a)` = true
  - `(contains? #{:a :b} 3)` = false

- Calling Functions
  - opening parenthesis, operator, operands, closing parenthesis.

- Anonymous Functions
  - `((fn [x] (* x 3)) 8)` = 24
  - `(#(* % 3) 8)` = 24
  - `(map (fn [name] (str “Hi, ” name)) [“Darth Vader” “Mr. Magoo”])` = (“Hi, Darth Vader” “Hi, Mr. Magoo”)
  - `(map #(str “Hi, ” %) [“Darth Vader” “Mr. Magoo”])` ; => (“Hi, Darth Vader” “Hi, Mr. Magoo”)

- Let
  - binds names to values
  - `(let [x 3] x)`

- Loop
  - (loop [iteration 0] (println (str “It eration ” iteration)) (if (> iteration 3) (println “Goodbye !”) (recur (inc iteratio n))))


