Today was able to read through Chapter 7 of Clojure from the Ground Up - interesting chapter with an overview of how Clojure structures a project and how namespaces work, as well as an introduction into reviewing a JSON data file and extracng information from it. Looking forward to learning more of this.


## [Chapter 7](https://aphyr.com/posts/311-clojure-from-the-ground-up-logistics)

- Project Structure

  - When creating a new lein project a few files and folders are created:
  - project.clj defines the project: its name, its version, dependencies, and so on
  -  README.md, first file most people open when looking at a project. Lein generates a generic readme which can be filled in
  -  `doc` directory is for documentation; hand-written or automatically generated from the source code.
  -  `resources` is for files like images etc.
  -  `src` is where Clojure code lives,
  -  `test` contains the corresponding tests.
  -  `target` is where Leiningen stores compiled code, built packages, and so on.

- Namespace
  -  Every lein project starts out with a stub namespace containing a simple function
  -  The ns macro lets the Clojure compiler know that all following code belongs in the "name".core namespace
  -  As projects expand, we can add new namespaces to separate our work
  -  `def`, `defn`, and peers always work in the scope of a particular namespace
  -  To access things from other namespaces, we have to require them in the namespace definition `(ns user (:require [scratch.core]))`
  -  If using a var from another namespace often,  refer it to the local namespace–which means you may omit the namespace qualifier entirely `(ns user (:require [scratch.core :refer [foo]]))`

- Code and tests
  -  Wherever possible, we want to automate software tests–making the test itself another program
  -  A **failure **is when a test returns the wrong value. An **error **is when a test throws an exception

- Exploring data
  -  We can use libraries to parse data, solve mathematical problems, render graphics, perform simulations, talk to robots, or predict the weather
  -  To get a file for eg.JSON
    -  Add dependency `[cheshire "5.3.1"]`
```Clojure 
    (use 'cheshire.core)
(parse-string (slurp "2008.json"))
(first (parse-string (slurp "2008.json")))
(-> "2008.json" slurp parse-string first)
(def data (parse-string (slurp "2008.json") true))
```
  -  Can then do `(->> data (map :driving_under_influence) frequencies)`, `(->> data (map :driving_under_influence) frequencies (sort-by key) pprint)`
  -  `(->> data (sort-by :driving_under_influence) (take-last 10) (map #(select-keys % [:driving_under_influence :fips_county_code :fips_state_code])) pprint)`
  -  and many many more
