Today went back to ready Chapter 4 of Clojure from the Ground up. Think will try out the test / questions included in the bottom of Chapter 3 and 4 tomorrow just to reinforce my learning. 


####### Direct Approach
######## If want to increment [1 2 3] each by one, could not simply use `inc` need to use: [(inc (nth numbers 0)) (inc (nth numbers 1)) (inc (nth numbers 2))]
###### Recursion
####### (first [1 2 3]) = the first item
####### (rest [ 1 2 3]) = all but the first item
####### `cons`, which says “make a list beginning with the first argument, followed by all the elements in the second argument eg. (cons 1 [2])
####### `(defn inc-first [nums] (if (first nums)    ; If there's a first number, build a new list with cons (cons (inc (first nums)) (rest nums)) ; If there's no first number, just return an empty list  (list)))`
###### map
####### function expresses a sequence in which each element is some function applied to the corresponding element in the underlying sequence. This idea is so important that it has its own name, in mathematics, Clojure, and other languages. We call it map
####### map relates one sequence to another. The type map relates keys to values. There is a deep symmetry between the two: maps are usually sparse, and the relationships between keys and values may be arbitrarily complex. The map function, on the other hand, usually expresses the same type of relationship, applied to a series of elements in fixed order.
###### Building Sequences
####### iterate - (take 10 (iterate inc 0))
######## (take 10 (iterate (fn [x] (if (odd? x) (+ 1 x) (/ x 2))) 10))
####### (take 10 (repeat :hi))
####### Range - (range 0 100 5)
####### Cycle - (take 10 (cycle [1 2 3]))
####### Iterate is handy when working with infinite sequences - repeat is it's partner in crime
###### Transforming Sequences
######### Given a sequence, we often want to find a related sequence
######### (map (fn [n vehicle] (str "I've got " n " " vehicle "s"))
         [0 200 9]
         ["car" "train" "kiteboard"])
("I've got 0 cars" "I've got 200 trains" "I've got 9 kiteboards")
######### interpose - (interpose :and [1 2 3 4])
######### reverse - (reverse [1 2 3])
########## (apply str (reverse "woolf"))
######### seq - (seq "sato") -breaks things up
######### Shuffle - (shuffle [1 2 3 4])
########## (apply str (shuffle (seq "abracadabra")))
######## reduce and reductions
######### (frequencies [:meow :mrrrow :meow :meow]) = {:meow 3, :mrrrow 1}
######## After transforming a sequence, we often want to collapse it in some way; to derive some smaller value. For instance, we might want the number of times each element appears in a sequence:
###### Subsequnces
######## `take`, selects the first n elements. `drop` removes the first n elements.
######## can also use take-last / drop-last to get the last items
######## Can do take positives / split at certain point
######## After transforming a sequence, we often want to collapse it in some way; to derive some smaller value. For instance, we might want the number of times each element appears in a sequence:
######### (frequencies [:meow :mrrrow :meow :meow]) = {:meow 3, :mrrrow 1}
######## reduce and reductions
###### This is all very similar to Excel just with some name changes - functions such as filer, take, drop, seq, frequency - just need to learn the name and will be good to go.
